HTTML5 Games most wanted
2012

[open web technologies] ..have evolved since the dawn of the
internet and have been proven as reliable and stable while other
technologies rise and fall beside them.

..very little investment needs to be made to begin developing
games using open web technologies.


HTML5 canvas is a JavaScript API and corresponding HTML element
that allows for bitmap graphics to be created and edited within
the browser.

The negative aspects of canvas are that performance varies across
platforms and animation functionality isn't built in.

SVG is a 2D solution that used the document object model (DOM) to
produce and manager vector graphics. The negative aspects of SVG
are that it isn't as popular as canvas and that it doesn't cope as
well with pixel-perfect precision.

WebGl is based on OpenGl ES 2.0. It's hardware accelerated (fast)
and allows for some pretty complex visual effects. The negative
aspects are that it is complicated to learn and isn't supported by
Internet Exploer yet.

The limitation of the HTML5 audio element is that it's purpose is
really to play single audio files, like background music within a
game.


If the visuals and audio are amazing but the game play is boring,
a player will stop playing. The substance of the game is the
mechanics, so don't invest too much effort in the aesthetics
unless it plays and integral role in the core of the game.

... HTML5 as a buzzword describes more than just the next version
of HTML: it includes new HTML5 tags, new (JavaScript) APIs like
canvas, video, audio, geolocation, drag and drop, and more.

[CSS] you can express broad, general styles that "cascade" to many
elements, and then override these for any specific elements, as
necessary.

A CSS stylesheet is structured as a set of rules. A CSS rule has
two main parts: a selector and one or more declarations. A
declaration is composed of a property and a value.

[transition] It allows us to perform an animation between two
given states.

To use CSS transitions, like in a state machine, we need to
identify states and actions. States are CSS selectors and actions
are changes made between these CSS selectors.

CSS Transitions allow us to make degradable  games because CSS
interpreters are nice; if they meet unknown properties, they
simply ignore them and keep working.

[transforms] allows elements to be translated, rotated, scaled and
skewed in two-dimensional space.

Web usage is huge, but creating dynamic and real-time games is not
the primary purpose of the web.

Avoiding text selection in games is important.

#Pure DOM Vs. canvas-based game

Both solutions are viable, but do not cover the same needs. The
solution depends on the game type.

##Notes

Firefox and Chrome came up with distinct API's for audio
manipulation.

The author recommends reading Ralph Koster's *A theory of fun for
game design*.

Recommends Pro HTML5 and CSS3 Design Patterns by Michael Bowers

Checkout the #bbg channel on freenode.

checkout: caniuse.com
